# ScoutingDIVE Spreadsheet Setup

This guide describes how to take a scouting workbook generated by Scouting P.A.S.S. and turn it into an easily-readable file for ScoutingDIVE

## Steps:

1. Add a column (F) to the right of the robot column (E) and use the LEFT(@$E;$E, 1) formula to make the cell in column F display the first letter (robot color) of the cell in column E.
2. Add a new sheet to the workbook. This sheet will be where you tabulate all the match scores.
3. Add a header row to the new page. Recommended headings are: "match_number" (column A), "red_points" (column B), "blue_points" (column C).
4. Starting in column A, cell 2, fill in the match numbers from column C from the first page. This *will* make 5 or 6 rows per match, but don't worry - you can get rid of duplicates later.
5. Use the SUMIFS() formula to add up the totalScore values and get a final scouter-generated alliance score. In the 2022 version of Scouting P.A.S.S., this is column AU on the first page, but your totalScore column may vary year to year.

Sample SUMIFS syntax:

RED: =SUMIFS('Match Scouting Data'!$AU:$AU,  'Match Scouting Data'!$C:$C, $A2, 'Match Scouting Data'!$F:$F, "r")
BLUE formula syntax (blue): =SUMIFS('Match Scouting Data'!$AU:$AU,  'Match Scouting Data'!$C:$C, $A2, 'Match Scouting Data'!$F:$F, "b")

What the SUMIFS formula does is takes the value in the first criteria (the value from the first sheet, column AU) and adds it up *if* the match number in column C equals the match number in the data summary sheet row **and** the robot color that you separated in column F is correct for the column.

This spreadsheet setup - starting matches in row 2 and having red in column B/blue in column C - is readable and will produce accurate results with the Python code currently in this repo. If you choose to put your total match scores in different rows/columns, just adjust the values in the iat[] code accordingly.

Happy scouting!
